#### 6.1. TCP-Connect scan

- About: attempts to establish a full TCP connection
- Pros: fast and simple, does not require special privileges
- Cons: can easily be detected and filtered, generates connection logs

```
# nmap –sT 192.168.0.1 # SYN,SYN-ACK,ACK,RST
```


#### 6.2. TCP SYN scan

- About: attempts to establish a half open connection
- Pros: only a few systems monitor and log this type of scan attempts - SYN-ACK (port is open)
- Cons:
	* need to be `root` to deliver SYN packets
	* slightly slower than TCP-connect scan

```
# nmap –sS 192.168.0.1
```


#### 6.3. TCP FIN, Xmus, Null
- About: better technique for bypassing filtering
- Pros: works fine with *nix boxes
- Cons: not effective against MS (responds always with RST packet)
- How it works:
  - If: packet is ignored (port is open) 
  - Else: RST packet is sent as response (port is NOT open)

```
# nmap –sF 192.168.0.1 #FIN
# nmap –sX 192.168.0.1 #Xmus
# nmap –sN 192.168.0.1 #Null
```


#### 6.4. UDP scan
- About: determine which UDP ports are open
- Pros: can find UDP services that won't typically run on TCP
- Cons: 
    - can get incorrect results (prone to false-positives)
    - show - very slow!
- How it works:
  - send a 0 byte UDP packet.
  - when response is ICMP unreachable port is closed, otherwise port is considered as open.

```
# nmap –sU 192.168.0.1
```


#### 6.5. Version detection scan
- About: determines the version number of the running service
- Pros: handy feature; can replace vulnerability scanners
- Cons: accuracy issues (effectiveness depends on target)
- How it works: 
  - service fingerprint is compared to nmap's DB

```
# nmap –sV 192.168.0.1
```


#### 6.6. Protocol scan
- About: determines IP protocols supported by target
- Pros: -
- Cons: time consuming (~ 256 protocol types)
- How it works:
  - sends raw IP packets to the host without any protocol header

```
# nmap –sO 192.168.0.1
```


#### 6.7. ACK scan
- About: maps out firewall rule-sets (stateful / blocks incoming SYN packets)
- How it works: 
  - an ACK packet is send to the port. RST reply = port is open.

```
# nmap –sA 192.168.0.1
```


#### 6.8. List scan
- About: generates a list of IP addresses without actually pinging or scanning them
- Pros: DNS resolution is performed as well

```
# nmap -sL yahoo.com
```


#### 6.9. RPC scan
- About: floods TCP/UDP ports with Sun-RPC packets (sends Null commands)
- Pros: grab version number as well

```
# nmap -sR 192.168.0.1
```


#### 6.10. Window scan
- similar to ACK Scanning (maps open/closed or filtered/unfiltered ports due to anomaly in TCP window size)

```
# nmap -sW 192.168.0.1
```


#### 6.11. Idle Scan
- About: 
  - uses Zombie machine to scan the target (zombie machine takes the blame)
  - gives best results when zombie is idle
- Pros: helps mapping the trust relationship between hosts (crucial for spoofing attacks)

```
# nmap -sI <zombie> <target>
```


#### 6.12. Grep format output
```
# ip='192.168.1.1'
# nmap -sS -Pn -n -p- $ip -oG - \
| grep -oE '[0-9]{1,}/open/.*' \
| tr ',' '\n' | sed 's/^ *//' | grep -oE '.*\/'
```


#### 6.13. Working with subnets
```
# nmap 192.168.1.* -p80 -Pn -n
# nmap 192.168.*.* -p80 -Pn -n
# nmap 192.168.1.12-18 -p80 -Pn -n
# nmap 192.168.1-128.12-18 -p80 -Pn -n
# nmap 10.0.0.1/8 -p80 -Pn -n
```
